<NER>
While drinking your favourite cold drink, you probably do not imagine what is going on inside each ice cube. 
At the Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology Graduate University (OIST)/Plc, 
the Theory of Quantum Matter Unit, led by <PER>Professor Nic Shannon</PER> has explained in detail 
the theory behind two experiments that show how protons inside ice behave. 
Their findings have been published in Physical Review B.

Everything we see from a cloud of smoke to a solid rock takes that specific form because of 
the collective behaviour of the atoms that make up that object. 
However, how do atoms choose how to behave? And which choices do they have? 
"We understand almost everything about how a single quantum particle behaves," 
explains <PER>Prof. Shannon</PER>, 
"but put a group of quantum particles together, and anything can happen. 
Surprisingly, we still don't really know what happens in something as simple as ice."

A water molecule (H20) is formed when an oxygen ion forms covalent bonds 
with two protons (hydrogen). In ice, these water molecules are connected by weaker 
hydrogen bonds, so that every oxygen forms two short covalent bonds and 
two long hydrogen bonds with its neighbouring protons. 
Water ice is unique, because the oxygen atoms are ordered in hexagonally shaped 
crystals similar to honeycombs, but the hydrogen protons do not follow a regular pattern. 
Instead, they respect the so-called "ice rules": each bond can contain only one proton 
and each oxygen ion has two protons adjacent to it; but there are virtually infinite ways 
for the protons to satisfy this rule, even in a small piece of ice. So are protons in ice ordered or disordered?
</NER>
<NER>
The idea of climate change turning the UK into a viable wine-making region may have boosted 
the industry in recent years. 
But cold snaps, sharp frosts and downpours threaten productivity - according to University of East Anglia/Plc research.

As UK wine producers prepare for what they hope will be a bumper 2016 season a study 
published today reveals that year-to-year climate variability and hazardous weather at key points 
in the growing season leave the industry highly sensitive to the elements.

It also suggests that in vogue varieties such as Chardonnay and Pinot noir are more susceptible to 
UK climate variability than traditional varieties.

Over the last decade there has been a boom in English wine production. 
The amount of land used for viticulture (vine growing) has increased by 148 per cent - 
with around 1884 hectares (the equivalent of 2638 football pitches) currently devoted to the industry.

It is not just the scale of production that has grown. 
Producers are receiving global recognition for their premium quality wines - 
in particular English Sparkling Wine, which is out-classing other more famous sparkling wine-producing regions.

Researchers from UEA studied the UK's main grape-growing regions and looked at the 
relationships between temperature, rainfall, extreme weather events and yield. 
They also surveyed wine producers for their views on the role of climate change in the success of English wine.

By combining this data, they were able to identify opportunities and threats to the industry for the first time.

Lead researcher <PER>Alistair Nesbitt</PER>, from UEA's School of Environmental Sciences, 
said: "The UK has been warming faster than the global average since 1960 and eight of the warmest years 
in the last century have occurred since 2002. 
Producers recognised the contribution of climate change to the sectors recent growth, 
but also expressed concerns about threats posed by changing conditions"
</NER>
<NER>
"Since 1993, the average southern England growing season temperature has consistently been above 
13oC and since 1989 there have been 10 years where the temperature was 14oC or higher (up to 2013). 
This is around the same temperature as the sparkling wine producing region in Champagne during the 1960s, 70s and 80s.

"However by comparison, UK wine yields are very low. 
In Champagne, yields can be more than 10,000 litres per hectare, 
but in the UK, it is around 2,100 on average.
</NER>

