<NER>"Genetic diversity in these early people from Asia was limited by the small founding 
populations which were isolated on the Beringian land bridge for around 2400 to 9000 years," 
says joint lead author <PER>Dr Lars Fehren-Schmitz</PER>, from UCSC. "It was at the peak of the 
last Ice Age, when cold deserts and ice sheets blocked human movement, and limited 
resources would have constrained population size. This long isolation of a small group of 
people brewed the unique genetic diversity observed in the early Americans."
</NER>
<NER>
Researchers at the University of Rochester/Plc have overcome experimental challenges to 
demonstrate a new way for getting a full picture of twisted light: characterizing the Wigner distribution.
Twisted light has raised researchers' interest for its potential for quantum communication applications. 
The discrete nature of one of the defining parameters of twisted light, orbital angular momentum (OAM), 
makes it attractive for encoding quantum information. There is also no known fundamental limit to 
the maximum OAM value that can be coded into a photon, which could allow for quicker communication 
than with other systems.
But before any particular system can be used in quantum communication, researchers need to be able to 
measure it and describe it. Other methods to obtain the wavefunction, a property that describes 
a quantum system in full - such as quantum tomography or direct measurements - 
have been demonstrated in the past. However, in a Physical Review Letters paper published this week, 
the Rochester/Plc researchers state that their technique is particularly "suitable for quantum 
information applications involving a large number of OAM states."
</NER>
<NER>
With its Colonial-era street patterns, icy winters, notoriously aggressive drivers and high-tech talent, 
the Boston region would seem the perfect place to test self-driving cars and ensure they can handle 
anything thrown at them.
But the area, and indeed the entire Northeast, has no law outlining how the technology should be 
driven and tested. And lawmakers who want to respond are being spurned by leaders of the 
fast-growing industry, who would rather have no rules than a patchwork of state laws getting in their way.
That's leaving local startups and some of the country's most renowned engineering departments in a bind.
"I'm hoping that the New England states will make it possible for us to do this work right at home very soon," 
said <PER>Daniela Rus</PER>, a professor who directs the artificial intelligence laboratory at the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which has partnered with Toyota to advance autonomous driving. 
"We have more flexibility testing our algorithms and self-driving vehicles in Singapore than we do here. 
It's really onerous to pack up your research and move to a place to test it."
In the absence of clear rules, researchers are welcoming an emerging Massachusetts plan by the 
administration of Republican <PER>Gov. Charlie Baker</PER> to carve out a self-driving testing ground 
at a former military base an hour's drive from Boston, which is a center for robotics and artificial 
intelligence research.
</NER>